Creative Commons Legal Code

CC0 1.0 Universal

    CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE
    LEGAL SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS DOCUMENT DOES NOT CREATE AN
    ATTORNEY-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS
    INFORMATION ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO WARRANTIES
    REGARDING THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS
    PROVIDED HEREUNDER, AND DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM
    THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS PROVIDED
    HEREUNDER.

Statement of Purpose

The laws of most jurisdictions throughout the world automatically confer
exclusive Copyright and Related Rights (defined below) upon the creator and
subsequent owner(s) (each and all, an "owner") of an original work of authorship
and/or a database (each, a "Work").

Certain owners wish to permanently relinquish those rights to a Work for the
purpose of contributing to a commons of creative, cultural and scientific works
("Commons") that the public can reliably and without fear of later claims of
infringement build upon, modify, incorporate in other works, reuse and
redistribute as freely as possible in any form whatsoever and for any purposes,
including without limitation commercial purposes. These owners may contribute to
the Commons to promote the ideal of a free culture and the further production of
creative, cultural and scientific works, or to gain reputation or greater
distribution for their Work in part through the use and efforts of others.

For these and/or other purposes and motivations, and without any expectation of
additional consideration or compensation, the person associating CC0 with a Work
(the "Affirmer"), to the extent that he or she is an owner of Copyright and
Related Rights in the Work, voluntarily elects to apply CC0 to the Work and
publicly distribute the Work under its terms, with knowledge of his or her
Copyright and Related Rights in the Work and the meaning and intended legal
effect of CC0 on those rights.

1. Copyright and Related Rights. A Work made available under CC0 may be
   protected by copyright and related or neighboring rights ("Copyright and
   Related Rights"). Copyright and Related Rights include, but are not limited
   to, the following:

i. the right to reproduce, adapt, distribute, perform, display, communicate, and
translate a Work; ii. moral rights retained by the original author(s) and/or
performer(s); iii. publicity and privacy rights pertaining to a person's image
or likeness depicted in a Work; iv. rights protecting against unfair competition
in regards to a Work, subject to the limitations in paragraph 4(a), below; v.
rights protecting the extraction, dissemination, use and reuse of data in a
Work; vi. database rights (such as those arising under Directive 96/9/EC of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection
of databases, and under any national implementation thereof, including any
amended or successor version of such directive); and vii. other similar,
equivalent or corresponding rights throughout the world based on applicable law
or treaty, and any national implementations thereof.

2. Waiver. To the greatest extent permitted by, but not in contravention of,
   applicable law, Affirmer hereby overtly, fully, permanently, irrevocably and
   unconditionally waives, abandons, and surrenders all of Affirmer's Copyright
   and Related Rights and associated claims and causes of action, whether now
   known or unknown (including existing as well as future claims and causes of
   action), in the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the maximum
   duration provided by applicable law or treaty (including future time
   extensions), (iii) in any current or future medium and for any number of
   copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever, including without limitation
   commercial, advertising or promotional purposes (the "Waiver"). Affirmer
   makes the Waiver for the benefit of each member of the public at large and to
   the detriment of Affirmer's heirs and successors, fully intending that such
   Waiver shall not be subject to revocation, rescission, cancellation,
   termination, or any other legal or equitable action to disrupt the quiet
   enjoyment of the Work by the public as contemplated by Affirmer's express .

3. Public License Fallback. Should any part of the Waiver for any reason be
   judged legally invalid or ineffective under applicable law, then the Waiver
   shall be preserved to the maximum extent permitted taking into account
   Affirmer's express . In addition, to the extent the Waiver is so judged
   Affirmer hereby grants to each affected person a royalty-free, non
   transferable, non sublicensable, non exclusive, irrevocable and unconditional
   license to exercise Affirmer's Copyright and Related Rights in the Work (i)
   in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the maximum duration provided by
   applicable law or treaty (including future time extensions), (iii) in any
   current or future medium and for any number of copies, and (iv) for any
   purpose whatsoever, including without limitation commercial, advertising or
   promotional purposes (the "License"). The License shall be deemed effective
   as of the date CC0 was applied by Affirmer to the Work. Should any part of
   the License for any reason be judged legally invalid or ineffective under
   applicable law, such partial invalidity or ineffectiveness shall not
   invalidate the remainder of the License, and in such case Affirmer hereby
   affirms that he or she will not (i) exercise any of his or her remaining
   Copyright and Related Rights in the Work or (ii) assert any associated claims
   and causes of action with respect to the Work, in either case contrary to
   Affirmer's express .

4. Limitations and Disclaimers.

a. No trademark or patent rights held by Affirmer are waived, abandoned,
surrendered, licensed or otherwise affected by this document. b. Affirmer offers
the Work as-is and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning
the Work, express, implied, statutory or otherwise, including without limitation
warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non
infringement, or the absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
present or absence of errors, whether or not discoverable, all to the greatest
extent permissible under applicable law. c. Affirmer disclaims responsibility
for clearing rights of other persons that may apply to the Work or any use
thereof, including without limitation any person's Copyright and Related Rights
in the Work. Further, Affirmer disclaims responsibility for obtaining any
necessary consents, permissions or other rights required for any use of the
Work. d. Affirmer understands and acknowledges that Creative Commons is not a
party to this document and has no duty or obligation with respect to this CC0 or
use of the Work.

---

Note: The above license applies only to the modifications made by PlayForm to
the original work. The original work is licensed under the following licenses
and is subject to their terms and conditions:

# A. HISTORY OF THE SOFTWARE

Python was created in the early 1990s by Guido van Rossum at Stichting
Mathematisch Centrum (CWI, see http://www.cwi.nl) in the Netherlands as a
successor of a language called ABC. Guido remains Python's principal author,
although it includes many contributions from others.

In 1995, Guido continued his work on Python at the Corporation for National
Research Initiatives (CNRI, see http://www.cnri.reston.va.us) in Reston,
Virginia where he released several versions of the software.

In May 2000, Guido and the Python core development team moved to BeOpen.com to
form the BeOpen PythonLabs team. In October of the same year, the PythonLabs
team moved to Digital Creations, which became Zope Corporation. In 2001, the
Python Software Foundation (PSF, see https://www.python.org/psf/) was formed, a
non-profit organization created specifically to own Python-related Intellectual
Property. Zope Corporation was a sponsoring member of the PSF.

All Python releases are Open Source (see http://www.opensource.org for the Open
Source Definition). Historically, most, but not all, Python releases have also
been GPL-compatible; the table below summarizes the various releases.

    Release         Derived     Year        Owner       GPL-
                    from                                compatible? (1)

    0.9.0 thru 1.2              1991-1995   CWI         yes
    1.3 thru 1.5.2  1.2         1995-1999   CNRI        yes
    1.6             1.5.2       2000        CNRI        no
    2.0             1.6         2000        BeOpen.com  no
    1.6.1           1.6         2001        CNRI        yes (2)
    2.1             2.0+1.6.1   2001        PSF         no
    2.0.1           2.0+1.6.1   2001        PSF         yes
    2.1.1           2.1+2.0.1   2001        PSF         yes
    2.1.2           2.1.1       2002        PSF         yes
    2.1.3           2.1.2       2002        PSF         yes
    2.2 and above   2.1.1       2001-now    PSF         yes

Footnotes:

(1) GPL-compatible doesn't mean that we're distributing Python under the GPL.
All Python licenses, unlike the GPL, let you distribute a modified version
without making your changes open source. The GPL-compatible licenses make it
possible to combine Python with other software that is released under the GPL;
the others don't.

(2) According to Richard Stallman, 1.6.1 is not GPL-compatible, because its
license has a choice of law clause. According to CNRI, however, Stallman's
lawyer has told CNRI's lawyer that 1.6.1 is "not incompatible" with the GPL.

Thanks to the many outside volunteers who have worked under Guido's direction to
make these releases possible.

# B. TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ACCESSING OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON

Python software and documentation are licensed under the Python Software
Foundation License Version 2.

Starting with Python 3.8.6, examples, recipes, and other code in the
documentation are dual licensed under the PSF License Version 2 and the
Zero-Clause BSD license.

Some software incorporated into Python is under different licenses. The licenses
are listed with code falling under that license.

## PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION LICENSE VERSION 2

1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between the Python Software Foundation ("PSF"), and
   the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and otherwise using
   this software ("Python") in source or binary form and its associated
   documentation.

2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, PSF hereby
   grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world-wide license to
   reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly, prepare derivative
   works, distribute, and otherwise use Python alone or in any derivative
   version, provided, however, that PSF's License Agreement and PSF's notice of
   copyright, i.e., "Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007,
   2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020,
   2021, 2022 Python Software Foundation; All Rights Reserved" are retained in
   Python alone or in any derivative version prepared by Licensee.

3. In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on or
   incorporates Python or any part thereof, and wants to make the derivative
   work available to others as provided herein, then Licensee hereby agrees to
   include in any such work a brief summary of the changes made to Python.

4. PSF is making Python available to Licensee on an "AS IS" basis. PSF MAKES NO
   REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT
   LIMITATION, PSF MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF
   PYTHON WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

5. PSF SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF PYTHON FOR ANY
   INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS A RESULT OF
   MODIFYING, DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON, OR ANY DERIVATIVE
   THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

6. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material breach of
   its terms and conditions.

7. Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any relationship
   of agency, partnership, or joint venture between PSF and Licensee. This
   License Agreement does not grant permission to use PSF trademarks or trade
   name in a trademark sense to endorse or promote products or services of
   Licensee, or any third party.

8. By copying, installing or otherwise using Python, Licensee agrees to be bound
   by the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.

## BEOPEN.COM LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 2.0

BEOPEN PYTHON OPEN SOURCE LICENSE AGREEMENT VERSION 1

1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between BeOpen.com ("BeOpen"), having an office at
   160 Saratoga Avenue, Santa Clara, CA 95051, and the Individual or
   Organization ("Licensee") accessing and otherwise using this software in
   source or binary form and its associated documentation ("the Software").

2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this BeOpen Python License Agreement,
   BeOpen hereby grants Licensee a non-exclusive, royalty-free, world-wide
   license to reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly, prepare
   derivative works, distribute, and otherwise use the Software alone or in any
   derivative version, provided, however, that the BeOpen Python License is
   retained in the Software, alone or in any derivative version prepared by
   Licensee.

3. BeOpen is making the Software available to Licensee on an "AS IS" basis.
   BEOPEN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. BY WAY OF
   EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, BEOPEN MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION
   OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT
   THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

4. BEOPEN SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF THE SOFTWARE FOR
   ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS A RESULT OF
   USING, MODIFYING OR DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE, OR ANY DERIVATIVE THEREOF,
   EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

5. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material breach of
   its terms and conditions.

6. This License Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in all respects
   by the law of the State of California, excluding conflict of law provisions.
   Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any relationship
   of agency, partnership, or joint venture between BeOpen and Licensee. This
   License Agreement does not grant permission to use BeOpen trademarks or trade
   names in a trademark sense to endorse or promote products or services of
   Licensee, or any third party. As an exception, the "BeOpen Python" logos
   available at http://www.pythonlabs.com/logos.html may be used according to
   the permissions granted on that web page.

7. By copying, installing or otherwise using the software, Licensee agrees to be
   bound by the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.

## CNRI LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 1.6.1

1.  This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between the Corporation for National Research
    Initiatives, having an office at 1895 Preston White Drive, Reston, VA 20191
    ("CNRI"), and the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and
    otherwise using Python 1.6.1 software in source or binary form and its
    associated documentation.

2.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, CNRI hereby

    reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly, prepare
    derivative works, distribute, and otherwise use Python 1.6.1 alone or in any
    derivative version, provided, however, that CNRI's License Agreement and
    CNRI's notice of copyright, i.e., "Copyright (c) 1995-2001 Corporation for
    National Research Initiatives; All Rights Reserved" are retained in Python
    1.6.1 alone or in any derivative version prepared by Licensee. Alternately,
    in lieu of CNRI's License Agreement, Licensee may substitute the following
    text (omitting the quotes): "Python 1.6.1 is made available subject to the
    terms and conditions in CNRI's License Agreement. This Agreement together
    with Python 1.6.1 may be located on the internet using the following unique,
    persistent identifier (known as a handle): 1895.22/1013. This Agreement may
    also be obtained from a proxy server on the internet using the following
    URL: http://hdl.handle.net/1895.22/1013".

3.  In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on or
    incorporates Python 1.6.1 or any part thereof, and wants to make the
    derivative work available to others as provided herein, then Licensee hereby
    agrees to include in any such work a brief summary of the changes made to
    Python 1.6.1.

4.  CNRI is making Python 1.6.1 available to Licensee on an "AS IS" basis. CNRI
    MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. BY WAY OF
    EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, CNRI MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION

    THE USE OF PYTHON 1.6.1 WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

5.  CNRI SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF PYTHON 1.6.1 FOR

    MODIFYING, DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON 1.6.1, OR ANY DERIVATIVE
    THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

6.  This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material breach
    of its terms and conditions.

7.  This License Agreement shall be governed by the federal intellectual
    property law of the United States, including without limitation the federal
    copyright law, and, to the extent such U.S. federal law does not apply, by
    the law of the Commonwealth of Virginia, excluding Virginia's conflict of
    law provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with regard to derivative
    works based on Python 1.6.1 that incorporate non-separable material that was
    previously distributed under the GNU General Public License (GPL), the law
    of the Commonwealth of Virginia shall govern this License Agreement only as
    to issues arising under or with respect to Paragraphs 4, 5, and 7 of this
    License Agreement. Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to
    create any relationship of agency, partnership, or joint venture between
    CNRI and Licensee. This License Agreement does not grant permission to use
    CNRI trademarks or trade name in a trademark sense to endorse or promote
    products or services of Licensee, or any third party.

8.  By clicking on the "ACCEPT" button where indicated, or by copying,
    installing or otherwise using Python 1.6.1, Licensee agrees to be bound by
    the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.

            ACCEPT

## CWI LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 0.9.0 THROUGH 1.2

Copyright (c) 1991 - 1995, Stichting Mathematisch Centrum Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that
the name of Stichting Mathematisch Centrum or CWI not be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written
prior permission.

STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
EVENT SHALL STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
SOFTWARE.

## ZERO-CLAUSE BSD LICENSE FOR CODE IN THE PYTHON DOCUMENTATION

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any purpose
with or without fee is hereby granted.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS
OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF
THIS SOFTWARE.
